# 🗓️ Daily Log – 2025-07-01

## EVM CODES

- `00` - `STOP` - GAS: 0. Halts the execution
- `01` - `ADD` - GAS: 3. Simple addition. Stack takes an input of `a` (first integer) and `b` (second integer to add). In the case of an error the state is reverted, error causes can be not enough values on the stack or not enough gas.
- `02` - `MUL` - GAS: 5. Simple multiplication `a * b`. Error behaviour and cases are same as for ADD
- `03` - `SUB` - GAS: 3. Simple subtraction, takes in `a` and `b` and  computes `a - b`. Same error behaviour and cases as other arithmetic opcodes.
- `04` - `DIV` - GAS: 5. Division, accepts `a: numerator` and `b: denominator`. Same error behaviour and cases as other arithmetic opcodes.
- `05` - `SDIV` - GAS: 5. Very similar to `DIV`, but takes in two signed 256 bit integers.
- `06` - `MOD` - GAS: 5. Modulo remainder operation. Returns a % b: integer result of the integer modulo. If the denominator equals 0, the result is 0.
- `07` - `SMOD` - GAS: 5. Very similar to `MOD`, but takes in two signed 256 bit integers. Same error behaviour and cases as other arithmetic opcodes.
- `08` - `ADDMOD` - GAS: 8. Input is `a: First integer value to add`, `b: Second integer value to add` and `N: integer denominator`. Output is `(a + b) % N`. If the denominator is 0 then the result will be 0. Same error behaviour and cases as other arithmetic opcodes.
- `09` - `MULMOD` - GAS: 8. Input is `a: First integer value to multiply`, `b: Second integer value to multiply` and `N: integer denominator`. Output is `(a * b) % N`. If the denominator is 0 then the result will be 0. Same error behaviour and cases as other arithmetic opcodes.
- `0A` - `EXP` - GAS: 10. Stack input is `a: integer base` and `b: integer exponent`. Returns `a ** exponent`. Same error behaviour and cases as other arithmetic opcodes.
