# 🗓️ Daily Log – 2025-06-30

## 🧠 Blog / Article Read
- **Title:** Introduction to smart contracts
- **Source:** Solidity blog
- **Link:** https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/introduction-to-smart-contracts.html

**Notes**

Very light intro to smart contracts, most of which I already knew, but nice refresher all the same. Covers contract basics such as:
  - License
  - Pragma - The version of solidity the compiler should use
  - constructor - Only ran on contract deployment. Of course nowadays and upgradeable contracts, the constructor is often omitted in favour of an `initializer`
  - Contracts auto create view(getter) functions for state variables

Blockchain Basics

- Transactions
  - A blockchain is essentially in it's simplest form a database of transactions, which is globally shared
  - A transaction is essentially a message from one account ot another, it can include ether, data (payload)
  - If the transaction does not have a recipient the transaction will create a new contract
- GAS
  - Upon creation, each transaction is charged with a certain amount of gas that has to be paid for by the originator of the transaction (tx.origin). While the EVM executes the transaction, the gas is gradually depleted according to specific rules. If the gas is used up at any point, an out-of-gas exception is triggered, which ends execution and reverts all modifications made to the state in the current call frame. In other words even if 90% of the code has been executed at that time, the whole state is reverted as if the transaction never happened.
  - Gas incentivises economical use of the EVM and also rewards participants - miners/stakers
  - The gas price is a value set by the originator of the transaction, who has to pay `gas_price * gas` up front to the EVM executor. If some gas is left after execution, it is refunded.
- Blocks
  - Blocks are essentially groups of transactions, this solves the problem of the `double spend attack`. For example two tx try to empty one account, how do we solve this? We don't and don't have to care, whichever tx is first is executed and the one that ends up being second will be rejected and not included in the block.
  - Blocks are added in sequence, at regular intervals (though this can change in the future) and is where the term blockchain is derived from.
  - Blocks can be reverted, but only at the tip of the chain, so the more blocks added on top of a specific block means the less chance of said block being reverted.
  - Transactions are not guaranteed to be included in the next block or any specific future block, since it is not up to the submitter of a transaction, but up to the miners to determine in which block the transaction is included.
- EVM
  - The EVM is the runtime env for smart contracts
  - It is sandboxed from the rest of the network, which means that code running inside the EVM has no access to the broader network or file system
  - Smart contracts themselves have only limited access to other smart contracts
-Accounts
  - Ethereum has two kind of accounts *Externally Owned Accounts* (EOAs) or contract accounts. EOAs are controlled by private and public key pairs and are controlled by people. Contract accounts are controlled by the code inside the contracts
  Every account has a balance of Ether, which can be modified by sending a transaction of Ether
- Storage, Transient Storage & Memory
  -Each account has a data area called `storage` that persists between function calls and transactions.
  - Storage is costly to read and write
  - Data such as aggregations, cache and derived calculations should be stored outside of teh contract
  - A contract can only read or wite from storage that is it's own - not any other contracts
  - `Transient Storage` is similar to regular storage but it is reset in between transactions. The cost is slightly less that regular storage to compensate for this
  - The final data are is called memory. The cost of using memory increases as it grows, so you should be careful what you store in memory. Every message call starts a fresh clean slate of memory
- Calldata and returndata
  - Calldata is sent as part of a smart contract transaction
  - Returndata is a way to get data back from the contract after a call
- Instruction set
  -Instruction set is kept minimal, opcodes will be added/removed from the callstack in a precide order consistently
- Message Calls
  - Contracts can call other contracts or send Ether to non-contract accounts by the means of message calls. Message calls are similar to transactions, in that they have a source, a target, data payload, Ether, gas and return data. In fact, every transaction consists of a top-level message call which in turn can create further message calls.
- Delegatecalls
  - There exists a special variant of a message call, named delegatecall which is identical to a message call apart from the fact that the code at the target address is executed in the context (i.e. at the address) of the calling contract and msg.sender and msg.value do not change their values.
  - This means that a contract can dynamically load code from a different address at runtime. Storage, current address and balance still refer to the calling contract, only the code is taken from the called address.
  - This makes it possible to implement the “library” feature in Solidity: Reusable library code that can be applied to a contract’s storage, e.g. in order to implement a complex data structure.
- Logs
  - Logs enable data store up to the block level, they are indexed ins a specific data structure and are used to implement events.
  - Contracts cannot access logs, but they can be fetched easily offchain and are the basis of most functionality in apps


**Final thoughts**

- This was mostly review, but writing it out helped me remember how much of Solidity’s UX hides EVM complexity.
- I want to explore how calldata gets parsed in assembly soon — this connects directly to how fallback proxies work.

## 🔍 Contract Reading
- **Project:** Cyfrin
- **Link:** https://www.cyfrin.io/glossary/fallback-solidity-code-example
- **Function/Pattern Studied:** Fallback()
- **Notes:**
  Fallback is a special function in solidity that is executed when a function that does not exist is called or Ether is sent directly to a contract and `receive()` does not exist


## 💬 Quick Reflections
- I need to get a deeper understanding of OPCODES and the stack in general. I guess the overall EVM inner workings. Noxx walkthroughs have been recommended in the past.
